docs: add server-side rendering guide for auth (#9057)
supabase/supabase: apps/reference/docs/guides/auth/server-side-rendering.mdx

### My server is getting invalid refresh token errors. What's going on?

It is likely that the refresh token sent from the browser to your server is
stale. Make sure the `onAuthStateChange` listener callback is free of bugs and
is registered relatively early in your application's lifetime.

If possible, when you receive this error on the server side try to defer
rendering to the browser where the client library can access an up-to-date
refresh token and present the user with a better experience.

### Should I set a shorter `Max-Age` parameter on the cookies?

The `Max-Age` or `Expires` cookie parameters only control whether the browser
will send the value to the server. Since a refresh token represents the
long-lived authentication session of the user on that browser, setting a short
`Max-Age` or `Expires` parameter on the cookies will only result in a degraded
user experience.

The only way to ensure that a user has logged out or their session has ended in
some way is to check with a call to `getUser()`.

### What should I use for the `SameSite` property?

Make sure you understand the parameter correctly, as your users can be
experiencing a degraded user experience.

> A good default is to use `lax`.

Reviewer: Can we explain what this property does or link out to something? Maybe https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie/SameSite?

Author: Yes.

---
id: server-side-rendering
title: Server-Side Rendering
description: Render pages with user information on the server.
---

Single-page apps with server-side rendering (SSR) is a popular way to optimize rendering
performance and leverage advanced caching strategies.

Supabase Auth supports server-side rendering when you need access to user
information, or your server needs to authorize API requests on behalf of your
user to render content.

When a user authenticates with Supabase Auth, two pieces of information are
issued by the server:

1. **Access token** in the form of a JWT.

> 2. **Refresh token** which is an opaque string.

Reviewer 2: Not sure what an opaque string means here. 🤔

Most Supabase projects have their auth server listening on

> `<project>.supabase.co/auth/v1`, thus the access token and refresh token are

Reviewer 2: After a quick search in the doc — looks like we use `<project-ref>` for this

set as `sb-access-token` and `sb-refresh-token` cookies on the
`<project>.supabase.co` domain.

:::note
These cookie names are for internal Supabase use only and may change without
warning. They are included in this guide for illustration purposes only.
:::

Web browsers limit access to cookies across domains, consistent with the
[Same-Origin Policy
(SOP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy).

Your web application cannot access these cookies,
nor will these cookies be sent to your application's server.

## Understanding the authentication flow

When you call one of the `signIn` methods, the client library running in the
browser sends the request to the Supabase Auth server. The Auth server determines

> whether to redirect to a login provider (for example, a social login), to

Reviewer 2: whether to verify a phone number, email and password combination, a Magic Link, or use a social login (if you have any setup in your project).

?

verify a phone number, email and password combination, a magic link, etc.

Upon successful verification of the identity of the user, the Supabase Auth

> server redirects the user back to your single-page app.

Reviewer 2: Is this where the cookies are also set?

Author: Yes, but we don't want to keep encouraging the use of cookies as set by Supabase Auth.

:::tip
You can configure [redirects URLs](https://app.supabase.com/project/_/auth/settings) in the Supabase Dashboard. You can use wildcard match patterns
like `*` and `**` to allow redirects to different forms of URLs.
:::

These redirect URLs have the following structure:

```
https://yourapp.com/...#access_token=<...>&refresh_token=<...>&...
```

The first access and refresh tokens after a successful

> verification are contained in the fragment (anything after the `#` sign) of the

Reviewer 2: in the **url** fragment

redirect URL. This is intentional and not configurable.

The client libraries are designed to listen for this type of URL, extract

> the relevant information from it, and persist it in local storage

Reviewer 2: what is the relevant information exactly? the access token?

Author: Updated to say access token, refresh token and some extra information...

for further use by the library and your app.

:::info

> Web browsers do not send the URL fragment to the server they're making the

Reviewer 2: I've never thought about this! 

Is this the browser or the cllient lib that's doing this?  I find this section really useful, but not super clear yet.

Reviewer 2: I think "total control" → "control" (ie: on a hosted platform)

Author: Updated:

```Web browsers do not send the URL fragment to the server they're making the
request to. Since you may not be hosting the single-page app on a server under
your direct control (such as on GitHub Pages or other freemium hosting
providers), we want to prevent hosting services from getting access to your
user's authorization credentials by default. Even if the server is under your
direct control, `GET` requests and their full URLs are often logged. This
approach also avoids leaking credentials in request or access logs.
```

request to. Since you may not be hosting the single-page app on a server under
your total control, we want to prevent hosting services from getting access to
your user's authorization credentials by default. Even if the server is under
your total control, `GET` requests and their full URLs are often logged. This
approach also avoids leaking credentials in request or access logs.
:::

> ## Bringing it together

Reviewer 2: This doesn't totally bring it together for me. I'm still not quite clear on this part: 

"the first request made by the browser to
your app's server after user login **does not contain any information about the
user**."

Author: Updated:

```Web browsers do not send the URL fragment to the server they're making the
request to. Since you may not be hosting the single-page app on a server under
your direct control (such as on GitHub Pages or other freemium hosting
providers), we want to prevent hosting services from getting access to your
user's authorization credentials by default. Even if the server is under your
direct control, `GET` requests and their full URLs are often logged. This
approach also avoids leaking credentials in request or access logs.
```

Author: Changed with:

```As seen from the authentication flow, the initial request after successful
login made by the browser to your app's server after user login **does not
contain any information about the user**. This is because first the client-side
JavaScript library must run before it makes the access and refresh token
available to your server.

It is very important to make sure that the redirect route right after login
works without any server-side rendering. Other routes requiring authorization
do not have the same limitation, provided you send the access and refresh
tokens to your server.
```

If you feel like it needs further change let's take it offline and not block the publishing of the guide.

    document.cookie = `my-access-token=${session.access_token}; path=/; max-age=${maxAge}; SameSite=Lax; secure`;
    document.cookie = `my-refresh-token=${session.refresh_token}; path=/; max-age=${maxAge}; SameSite=Lax; secure`;
  }
})
```

This uses the standard
[`document.cookie` API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/cookie)
to set cookies on all paths of your app's domain. All subsequent requests
made by the browser to your app's server include the `my-access-token` and
`my-refresh-token` cookies (the names of the cookies and additional
parameters can be changed).

In your server-side rendering code you can now access user and session
information:

```typescript
const refreshToken = req.cookies['my-refresh-token'];

if (refreshToken) {
  await supabase.auth.setSession(refreshToken);
} else {
  // make sure you handle this case!
  throw new Error("User is not authenticated.")
}

// returns user information
await supabase.auth.getUser();
```

Use `setSession(refreshToken)` instead of `getUser(accessToken)` as refresh
tokens are long-lived credentials that provide user information even if the user
has not used your app in a long time.

> Even though refresh tokens are long-lived, they is no guarantee that a user

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even though refresh tokens are long-lived, there is no guarantee that a user
```

has an active session. They may have logged out and your application failed to
remove the `my-refresh-token` cookie, or some other failure occurred that left
a stale refresh token in the browser.

> A good practice is to handle unauthorized errors by deferring to render the page

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A good practice is to handle unauthorized errors by deferring rendering the page
```

in the browser instead of in the server. Some user information is contained in the
access token though, so in certain cases, you may be able to use this potentially
stale information to render a page.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### How do I make the cookies `HttpOnly`?

> This is not necessary. Both the access token and refresh token are designed to

Reviewer 3: Maybe instead of saying it's not necessary, we should phrase it as it's not possible for now because in order for the client library to work, it needs to be able to access the access token and refresh token. Eventually, we would default to using strict http-only cookies instead of local storage.

Author: Ah actually we won't be able to use http-only cookies in a general sense. The access and refresh token have to be exchanged with the JavaScript / Kotlin / Swift / Dart (Flutter) as not all apps are browser apps (even though they use web technologies). Thus the sign-in flow has to somehow give access to the client code to the refresh token. Placing it as http-only no longer makes sense in such a situation.

Reviewer 3: I think in the long-run, we can actually move the refresh token to use http-only cookies. If it's used in a non-browser context, then they would be able to read the cookie like a normal header right?

rendering to the browser where the client library can access an up-to-date
refresh token and present the user with a better experience.

### Should I set a shorter `Max-Age` parameter on the cookies?

The `Max-Age` or `Expires` cookie parameters only control whether the browser
sends the value to the server. Since a refresh token represents the
long-lived authentication session of the user on that browser, setting a short
`Max-Age` or `Expires` parameter on the cookies only results in a degraded
user experience.

The only way to ensure that a user has logged out or their session has ended
is to get the user's details with `getUser()`.

### What should I use for the `SameSite` property?

Make sure you [understand the behavior of the parameter in different
situations](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie/SameSite),
as your users can be experiencing a degraded user experience.

A good default is to use `Lax` which will send cookies when users are
navigating to your site. Cookies typically require the `Secure` attribute,
which will only send them over HTTPS. However, this can sometimes be a problem

> when developing on `localhost`.

Author: @dannykng Can you review this bit please?

> Make sure you [understand the behavior of the parameter in different
> situations](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie/SameSite),
> as your users can be experiencing a degraded user experience.
> 
> A good default is to use `Lax` which will send cookies when users are
> navigating to your site. Cookies typically require the `Secure` attribute,
> which will only send them over HTTPS. However, this can sometimes be a problem
> when developing on `localhost`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you [understand the behavior of the property in different
situations](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie/SameSite)
as some properties can degrade the user experience.

A good default is to use `Lax` which sends cookies when users are
navigating to your site. Cookies typically require the `Secure` attribute,
which only sends them over HTTPS. However, this can be a problem when
developing on `localhost`.
```
